Add GoTrue Recipe (#225)
redwoodjs/redwoodjs.com: cookbook/GoTrue_Auth.md

Note here that our first iteration of sign up won't include features like Email Confirmation or Password Recovery. Those, among other features, will soon be covered in an Advanced Concepts section of this recipe.

For now, let's allow our users to sign up without confirming their email. Head back over to your sites' **Netlify Dashboard**, open the **Identity tab** and click **Settings and usage**.

![Netlify Identity Settings screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/458233/86220685-ed86c900-bb51-11ea-9d74-f1ee4ab0a91b.png)

In the **Emails > Confirmation template** section, click **edit settings**. Click the **Allow users to sign up without verifying their email address** checkbox so that it is checked. Finally, click **Save**.

![Netlify Identity Confirmation template](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/458233/86221090-7140b580-bb52-11ea-8530-b1a7be937c56.png)

Nicely done. Now we can head back to our app.

**The Sign Up Page**

Let's generate a Sign Up page using the [Redwood CLI](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/cli-commands):

```bash
yarn redwood generate page Signup
```

> This will add a Signup [route](/docs/redwood-router#router-and-route) to our routes file and create a SignupPage component.

Reviewer: Present >>>
```suggestion
This adds a Signup [route](/docs/redwood-router#router-and-route) to our routes file and creates a SignupPage component.
```

Now that we have a form interface, we're going to want to do something when the user submits the form. Let's add an onSubmit function to our component and pass it as a prop to our Form component:

```javascript {4-6,9}
// web/src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js
//...
const SignupPage = () => {
  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    // do something here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}
//...
```

The _something_ we need to do is—surprise!—sign up. To accomplish this we'll need a way to communicate with `<AuthProvider />` and the GoTrue-JS client we passed to it. Look no further than the [`useAuth` hook](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/authentication#api) which let's us subscribe to our auth state and its properties. In our case we'll be glad now to have access to `client` and, thusly, our GoTrue-JS instance and [all of its functions](https://github.com/netlify/gotrue-js/blob/master/README.md#authentication-examples).

Let's import `useAuth` and destructure `client` in our component:

> ```javascript {3,6}
> // src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {4,7}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    // do something here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

And now we'll attempt to create a new user in the `onSubmit` function with [`client.signup()`](https://github.com/netlify/gotrue-js/blob/master/README.md#create-a-new-user) by passing in the `email` and `password` values that we've captured from our form:

> ```javascript {9-12}
> // src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {10-13}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    client
      .signup(data.email, data.password)
      .then((res) => console.log(res))
      .catch((error) => console.log(error))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Presently, our sign up will work as is but simply console-logging the response from `client.signup()` is hardly useful behavior.

Let's display errors to the user if there is one. To do this, we'll set up `React.useState()` to manage our error state and conditionally render the error message if there is one. We'll also want to reset the error state at the beginning of every submission with `setError(null)`:

> ```javascript {6,9,13,18}
> // src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {7,10,14,19}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    client
      .signup(data.email, data.password)
      .then((res) => console.log(res))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Now we can handle a successful submission. Once a user has signed up we should direct them to the sign in page that we'll be building out in the next section.

Start by [generating](/docs/cli-commands#generate-page) a sign in page:

```bash
yarn redwood generate page Signin
```

Back in our `SignupPage`, let's import `routes` and `navigate` from [Redwood Router](/docs/redwood-router#navigate) and use them to redirect on successful sign up:

> ```javascript {4,14}
> // src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {5,15}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

```

      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Hoorah! We've just added added a sign up page and created a sign up form. We created a function to sign up users and we redirect users to the sign up page upon successful submission. We can move on to Sign In.

## Sign In

Let's get right to it. In the `web/src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js` we generated in the last section, let's add a basic form with `email` and `password` fields, some error reporting setup, and a hollow `onSubmit` function:

```javascript
// src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js
import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'

const SigninPage = () => {
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    // do sign in here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

Then we'll need to import `useAuth` from `@redwoodjs/auth` and destructure `logIn` so that we can use it in our `onSubmit` function:

> ```javascript {3,6}
> // src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {4,7}
// src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SigninPage = () => {
  const { logIn } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    // do sign in here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

Now we'll add `logIn` to our `onSubmit` function. This time we'll be passing an object to our function as we're using Redwood Auth's logIn function directly (as opposed to `client`). This object takes an email, password, and a remember boolean. We'll also chain on `then` and `catch` to handle the response:

> ```javascript {11-15}
> // src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {12-16}
// src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SigninPage = () => {
  const { logIn } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    logIn({ email: data.email, password: data.password, remember: true })
      .then(() => {
        // do something
      })
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

Now then, upon a successful login let's redirect our user back to the home page. First, [generate](/docs/cli-commands#generate-page) a homepage (if you haven't already):

```bash
yarn redwood generate page Home /
```

In our `SigninPage`, import `navigate` and `routes` from [`@redwoodjs/router`](/docs/redwood-router) and add them to the `then` function:

> ```javascript {4,13}
> // src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {5,14}
// src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

```

  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

Well done! We've created a sign in page and form and we successfully handle sign in. Next up...

## Sign Out

Sign out is by far the easiest auth functionality to implement; we just fire off useAuth's `logOut` method. Let's start by [generating a component](/docs/cli-commands#generate-component) that will house our Sign Out Button:

```bash
yarn redwood generate component SignoutBtn
```

In the `web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js` file we just generated, let's render a button and add a click handler:

```javascript
// web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js
const SignoutBtn = () => {
  const onClick = () => {
    // do sign out here.
  }
  return <button onClick={() => onClick()}>Sign Out</button>
}

export default SignoutBtn
```

No we can import [`useAuth` from `@redwoodjs/auth`](/docs/authentication#api). We'll destructure its `logOut` method and make use of it in the `onClick` function:

> ```javascript {2,5,8}
> // web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {3,6,9}
// web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

```

import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SignoutBtn = () => {
  const { logOut } = useAuth()

  const onClick = () => {
    logOut()
  }

  return <button onClick={() => onClick()}>Sign Out</button>
}

export default SignoutBtn
```

This will work as is but, because the user may be in a private area of your app when the Sign Out button is clicked, we should make sure we also navigate the user away from this page:

> ```javascript {3,9}
> // web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {4,10}
// web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

```

## Auth Links

Here we'll implement some auth related navigation that conditionally renders the correct links and buttons based on the users authentication state.

- When the user is not logged in, we should see **Sign Up** and **Sign In**.
- When the user is logged in, we should see **Log Out**.

Let's start by [generating a navigation component](/docs/cli-commands#generate-component):

```bash
yarn redwood generate component Navigation
```

This creates `web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js`. In that file lets import [the `Link` component and `routes`](/docs/redwood-router#link-and-named-route-functions) from `@redwoodjs/router`.

We'll also import [`useAuth`](/docs/authentication#api) since we'll need to subscribe to the auth state in order for our components to decide what to render:

```javascript
// web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js
import { Link, routes } from '@redwoodjs/router'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const Navigation = () => {
  return <nav></nav>
}

export default Navigation
```

Let's destructure [`isAuthenticated` from the `useAuth`](/docs/authentication#api) API and apply it to some conditionals in the render method:

> ```javascript {6,9-13}
> // web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {7,10-14}
// web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js

```

import { Link, routes } from '@redwoodjs/router'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const Navigation = () => {
  const { isAuthenticated } = useAuth()
  return (
    <nav>
      {isAuthenticated ? (
        // signed in - show the Sign Out button
      ) : (
        // signed out - show the Sign Up and Sign In links
      )}
    </nav>
  )
}

export default Navigation
```

Because Redwood Auth makes use of [React's Context API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to manage and broadcast the auth state, we can be confident that we'll always have an up to date value for isAuthenticated—even when it changes from within another component in the tree (so long as its a child of `<AuthProvider />`). In our case, when `isAuthenticated` changes, React will auto-magically take care of rendering the appropriate components.

So, now let's import our sign out button and add it, as well as sign in and sign up links, to the appropriate blocks in the conditional:

> ```javascript {4,10-17}
> // web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {5,11-18}
// web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js

```

import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'
import SignoutBtn from 'src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn'

const Navigation = () => {
  const { isAuthenticated } = useAuth()
  return (
    <nav>
      {isAuthenticated ? (
        <SignoutBtn />
      ) : (
        <>
          <Link to={routes.signup()}>Sign Up</Link>
          <Link to={routes.signin()}>Sign In</Link>
        </>
      )}
    </nav>
  )
}

export default Navigation
```

We have a working navigation component but we still need to render it somewhere. Let's [generate a layout](/docs/cli-commands#generate-layout) called GlobalLayout:

```bash
yarn redwood generate layout Global
```

Then import and render the navigation component in the newly generated `web/src/layouts/GlobalLayout/GlobalLayout`:

```javascript
// web/src/layouts/GlobalLayout/GlobalLayout
import Navigation from 'src/components/Navigation/Navigation'

const GlobalLayout = ({ children }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <header>
        <Navigation />
      </header>
      <main>{children}</main>
    </>
  )
}

export default GlobalLayout
```

Finally, we'll import and wrap each of our generated pages in this GlobalLayout component:

**Home**

> ```javascript {2,6,9}
> // web/src/pages/HomePage/Homepage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {3,7,10}
// web/src/pages/HomePage/Homepage.js

```

import GlobalLayout from 'src/layouts/GlobalLayout/GlobalLayout'

const HomePage = () => {
  return (
    <GlobalLayout>
      <h1>HomePage</h1>
      <p>Here lies a Redwood recipe.</p>
    </GlobalLayout>
  )
}

export default HomePage
```

**Sign Up**

> ```javascript {6,21,28}
> // src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {7,22,29}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

```

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'
import { routes, navigate } from '@redwoodjs/router'

import GlobalLayout from 'src/layouts/GlobalLayout/GlobalLayout'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    client
      .signup(data.email, data.password)
      .then(() => navigate(routes.signin()))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <GlobalLayout>
      <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
        {error && <p>{error}</p>}
        <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
        <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
        <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
      </Form>
    </GlobalLayout>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

**Sign In**

> ```javascript {6,20,27}
> // src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

Reviewer: Add line after filename for consistency with other recipes:

```suggestion
```javascript {7,21,28}
// src/pages/SigninPage/SigninPage.js

```

import { navigate, routes } from '@redwoodjs/router'

import GlobalLayout from 'src/layouts/GlobalLayout/GlobalLayout'

const SigninPage = () => {
  const { logIn } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    logIn({ email: data.email, password: data.password, remember: true })
      .then(() => navigate(routes.home()))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <GlobalLayout>
      <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
        {error && <p>{error}</p>}
        <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
        <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
        <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
      </Form>
    </GlobalLayout>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

And now we have navigation that will render the correct links and buttons based on our auth state. When the user signs in we'll see a **Sign Out** button. When the user is signed out we'll see **Sign Up** and **Sign In** links.

## Wrapping Up

We've configured GoTrue with Redwood Auth, created a Sign Up page, a Sign In page, a Sign Out button, and we've added auth links to our layout. Nicely done!

> In time we'll be adding recipes for more advanced Auth concepts like Password Recovery, Email Confirmation, and Authorization with user roles. In the meantime, you might want to continue your journey by reading about [deploying to Netlify](/tutorial/deployment), creating [custom Functions](/cookbook/custom-function) with a capital "F", or handling [File Uploads](/cookbook/file-uploads) in your Redwood app.

Reviewer: I like the intention, but think we should remove it for now.
```suggestion
```

Thanks for tuning in!

> _If you've spotted an error or are having trouble completing any part of this recipe, please feel free to open an issue on [Github](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood) or create a topic on our [community forum](https://community.redwoodjs.com/)._

Reviewer: Present > whatever tense "have"'s/"ing"'s are
```suggestion
_If you spot an error or have trouble completing any part of this recipe, please feel free to open an issue on [Github](https://github.com/redwoodjs/redwood) or create a topic on our [community forum](https://community.redwoodjs.com/)._
```

const SignupPage = () => {
  return (
    <Form>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Did I mention it was basic? If you want to add some polish, you might find both the [Redwood Form docs](https://5efa4336f1e71f00081df803--redwoodjs.netlify.app/docs/form) and the [tutorial section on forms](https://5efa4336f1e71f00081df803--redwoodjs.netlify.app/tutorial/everyone-s-favorite-thing-to-build-forms) quite useful. For our purposes, let's just focus the functionality.

Now that we have a form interface, we're going to want to do something when the user submits it. Let's add an `onSubmit` function to our component and pass it as a prop to our Form component:

```javascript {4-6,9}
// web/src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js
//...
const SignupPage = () => {
  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    // do something here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>

>     </Form>

Reviewer: The formatting's a bit weird here (on Netlify)--it doesn't look like it on GitHub, but is this all on one line?

Author: Strange. Seems to do that in any place that line is highlighted.

      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Presently, our sign up will work as is, but simply console-logging the response from `client.signup()` is hardly useful behavior.

Let's display errors to the user if there is one. To do this, we'll set up `React.useState()` to manage our error state and conditionally render the error message if there is one. We'll also want to reset the error state at the beginning of every submission with `setError(null)`:

```javascript {7,10,14,19}
// src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    client
      .signup(data.email, data.password)
      .then((res) => console.log(res))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>

>     </Form>

Reviewer: Formatting on Netlify (i.e. the website) is a bit weird here as well.

    logIn({ email: data.email, password: data.password, remember: true })
      .then(() => navigate(routes.home()))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign In</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SigninPage
```

Well done! We've created a sign in page and form and we successfully handle sign in. Next up...

## Sign Out

Sign out is by far the easiest auth functionality to implement; we just fire off useAuth's `logOut` method. Let's start by [generating a component](/docs/cli-commands#generate-component) that will house our Sign Out Button:

```bash
yarn redwood generate component SignoutBtn
```

In the `web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js` file we just generated, let's render a button and add a click handler:

```javascript
// web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

const SignoutBtn = () => {
  const onClick = () => {
    // do sign out here.
  }
  return <button onClick={() => onClick()}>Sign Out</button>
}

export default SignoutBtn
```

> No we can import [`useAuth` from `@redwoodjs/auth`](/docs/authentication#api). We'll destructure its `logOut` method and make use of it in the `onClick` function:

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
Now we can import [`useAuth` from `@redwoodjs/auth`](/docs/authentication#api). We'll destructure its `logOut` method and invoke it in the `onClick` function:
```

```javascript {4,10}
// web/src/components/SignoutBtn/SignoutBtn.js

import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'
import { navigate, routes } from '@redwoodjs/router'

const SignoutBtn = () => {
  const { logOut } = useAuth()

  const onClick = () => {
    logOut().then(() => navigate(routes.home()))
  }

  return <button onClick={() => onClick()}>Sign Out</button>
}

export default SignoutBtn
```

And that's it for Sign Out! Err, of course, we're not rendering it anywhere in our app yet. In the next section, well add some navigation that conditionally renders the appropriate sign up, sign in, and sign out buttons based on our authentication state.

## Auth Links

Here we'll implement some auth related navigation that conditionally renders the correct links and buttons based on the users authentication state.

- When the user is not logged in, we should see **Sign Up** and **Sign In**.
- When the user is logged in, we should see **Log Out**.

Let's start by [generating a navigation component](/docs/cli-commands#generate-component):

```bash
yarn redwood generate component Navigation
```

> This creates `web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js`. In that file lets import [the `Link` component and `routes`](/docs/redwood-router#link-and-named-route-functions) from `@redwoodjs/router`.

Reviewer: Missing apostrophe, parallelism.
```suggestion
This creates `web/src/components/Navigation/Navigation.js`. In that file, let's import [the `Link` component and the `routes` object](/docs/redwood-router#link-and-named-route-functions) from `@redwoodjs/router`.
```

# GoTrue Auth

If you've completed the [Authentication section](/tutorial/authentication) of The Tutorial, you've seen how you can add the [Netlify Identity Widget](https://github.com/netlify/netlify-identity-widget) to your Redwood app in a matter of minutes.

> But what do you do if you want to use Netlify Identity, but ditch the widget? There's many cases where we want much more control over our authentication interface and functionality, while still maintaining some _ease-of-use_ when it comes to development.

Reviewer 2: Grammar fix

```suggestion
But what do you do if you want to use Netlify Identity, but ditch the widget? There are many cases where we want much more control over our authentication interface and functionality, while still maintaining some _ease-of-use_ when it comes to development.
```

Enter [GoTrue-JS](https://github.com/netlify/gotrue-js), a client library for interfacing with Netlify Identity's GoTrue API.

In this recipe, we'll:

- [configure Redwood Auth with GoTrue-JS](#generate-auth-configuration) (easy),
- [create a Sign Up form](#sign-up) (easy),
- [create a Sign In form](#sign-in) (easy),
- [create a Sign Out button](#sign-out) (easy),
- [add auth links](#auth-links) that display the correct buttons based on our auth state (easy)

But first, some housekeeping...

## Prerequisites

> Before getting started, there's a few steps you should have completed:

Reviewer 2: Grammar fix

```suggestion
Before getting started, there are a few steps you should have completed:
```

- [Create a Redwood app](https://redwoodjs.com/tutorial/installation-starting-development)
- [Create a Netlify account](https://www.netlify.com/)
- [Deploy your Netlify site](https://redwoodjs.com/tutorial/deployment)
- [Enable Netlify Identity](#enable-netlify-identity)
- Fire up a dev server: `yarn redwood dev`

### Enable Netlify Identity

Unless you've skipped the [requirements](#prerequisites) section (for shame!), you should already have a Netlify account and a site set up. If you'd be so kind, navigate to your site's **Dashboard**, head to the **Identity** tab, and click **Enable Identity**:

![Netlify Identity screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/300/82271191-f5850380-992b-11ea-8061-cb5f601fa50f.png)

> Now you should see an Identity API endpoint, e.g. `https://my-bodacious-app.netlify.app/.netlify/identity`. Copy and paste that somewhere&mdash;we'll need it in a moment when we instantiate GoTrue-JS.

Reviewer 2: Add space

```suggestion
Now you should see an Identity API endpoint, e.g. `https://my-bodacious-app.netlify.app/.netlify/identity`. Copy and paste that somewhere&mdash; we'll need it in a moment when we instantiate GoTrue-JS.
```

Reviewer: Don't think this one's necessary after `&mdash;`. For example, adding a space make its look like this:

`somewhere&mdash; we'll`
somewhere&mdash; we'll

Instead of:

`somewhere&mdash;we'll`
somewhere&mdash;we'll

  return (
    <Form>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

Did I mention it was basic? If you want to add some polish, you might find both the [Redwood Form docs](https://5efa4336f1e71f00081df803--redwoodjs.netlify.app/docs/form) and the [tutorial section on forms](https://5efa4336f1e71f00081df803--redwoodjs.netlify.app/tutorial/everyone-s-favorite-thing-to-build-forms) quite useful. For our purposes, let's just focus the functionality.

Now that we have a form interface, we're going to want to do something when the user submits it. Let's add an `onSubmit` function to our component and pass it as a prop to our Form component:

```javascript {6,7,8,11}
// web/src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

// imports...

const SignupPage = () => {
  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    // do something here
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}
//...
```

> The _something_ we need to do is—surprise!—sign up. To do this, we'll need a way to communicate with `<AuthProvider />` and the GoTrue-JS client we passed to it. Look no further than the [`useAuth` hook](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/authentication#api), which let's us subscribe to our auth state and its properties. In our case, we'll be glad to now have access to `client` and, thusly, our GoTrue-JS instance and [all of its functions](https://github.com/netlify/gotrue-js/blob/master/README.md#authentication-examples).

Reviewer 2: Typo

```suggestion
The _something_ we need to do is—surprise!—sign up. To do this, we'll need a way to communicate with `<AuthProvider />` and the GoTrue-JS client we passed to it. Look no further than the [`useAuth` hook](https://redwoodjs.com/docs/authentication#api), which lets us subscribe to our auth state and its properties. In our case, we'll be glad to now have access to `client` and, thusly, our GoTrue-JS instance and [all of its functions](https://github.com/netlify/gotrue-js/blob/master/README.md#authentication-examples).
```

Start by [generating](/docs/cli-commands#generate-page) a sign in page:

```bash
yarn redwood generate page Signin
```

Back in our `SignupPage`, let's import `routes` and `navigate` from [Redwood Router](/docs/redwood-router#navigate) and use them to redirect on successful sign up:

```javascript {5,15}
// web/src/pages/SignupPage/SignupPage.js

import { Form, TextField, PasswordField, Submit } from '@redwoodjs/web'
import { useAuth } from '@redwoodjs/auth'
import { routes, navigate } from '@redwoodjs/router'

const SignupPage = () => {
  const { client } = useAuth()
  const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

  const onSubmit = (data) => {
    setError(null)
    client
      .signup(data.email, data.password)
      .then(() => navigate(routes.signin()))
      .catch((error) => setError(error.message))
  }

  return (
    <Form onSubmit={onSubmit}>
      {error && <p>{error}</p>}
      <TextField name="email" placeholder="email" />
      <PasswordField name="password" placeholder="password" />
      <Submit>Sign Up</Submit>
    </Form>
  )
}

export default SignupPage
```

> Hoorah! We've just added added a sign up page and created a sign up form. We created a function to sign up users and we redirect users to the sign up page upon successful submission. Let's move on to Sign In.

Reviewer 2: `added` is redundant

```suggestion
Hoorah! We've just added a sign up page and created a sign up form. We created a function to sign up users and we redirect users to the sign up page upon successful submission. Let's move on to Sign In.
```
